Add mentor notes for csharp track space-age (#1189)
exercism/website-copy: tracks/csharp/exercises/space-age/mentoring.md

> ### Reasonable solution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Reasonable solutions
```

> - using Dictionary

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### using Dictionary
```

> #### using Dictionary

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### using `Dictionary`
```

>     ```csharp

Reviewer: This entire code block is indented with 3 spaces. As this is not really necessary, could you remove the extra indentation please?

Author: no issue, I will remove these.

> ```csharp

Reviewer 2: Add a new line before this
```suggestion

```csharp
```

    using System.Collections.Generic;

    public class SpaceAge
    {
        private readonly double earthYear;

>         private static Dictionary<string, double> conversionFactor 

Reviewer: Instead of using a string as the key, maybe we should be using an enumeration here?

Reviewer: I would also include the conversion factor to earth here. I include, the `earthYear / conversionFactor[<planet>]` code could be extracted to a helper method.

Author: I will apply the helper method

Author: My only comment would be related to the enum within the solution with _Dictionary_ . While enum is perfect for a small set of values, using Dictionary potentially opens the solution for a more general implementation (when we could have thousands of planets from the sky, and generally compare them with Earth).

>         private static Dictionary<string, double> conversionFactor 

Reviewer: Maybe the name `conversionFactor` could be made a bit more explicit, to better represent what is being converted to what?

Author: yes

                = new Dictionary<string, double>()
        {
            {"Mercury", 0.2408467},
            {"Venus",   0.61519726},
            {"Mars",    1.8808158},
            {"Jupiter", 11.862615},
            {"Saturn",  29.447498},
            {"Uranus",  84.016846},
            {"Neptune", 164.79132},
        };

        public SpaceAge(int seconds)
        {

>             earthYear = seconds / 31557600.0;

Reviewer: I like how the earth year is only calculated once. You could consider introducing a constant for the `31557600.0` value.

Author: yes, true, this would be better

        }
    
        public double OnEarth() => earthYear;
        public double OnMercury() => earthYear / conversionFactor["Mercury"];
        public double OnVenus() => earthYear / conversionFactor["Venus"];
        public double OnMars() => earthYear / conversionFactor["Mars"];
        public double OnJupiter() => earthYear / conversionFactor["Jupiter"];
        public double OnSaturn() => earthYear / conversionFactor["Saturn"];
        public double OnUranus() => earthYear / conversionFactor["Uranus"];
        public double OnNeptune() => earthYear / conversionFactor["Neptune"];
    }
    ```

> - or const members

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Using constants
```

>     ```csharp

Reviewer: This entire code block is indented with 3 spaces. As this is not really necessary, could you remove the extra indentation please?

Author: yes, sure, I will do this

    using System;

    public class SpaceAge
    {

>         private double _seconds { get; }

Reviewer: A simple field is probably the more idiomatic solution:

```suggestion
        private readonly double _seconds;
```

> ```csharp

Reviewer 2: Add a newline before this:
```suggestion

```csharp
```

>         private const int earthYearInSeconds = 31_557_600;

Reviewer: I believe the default naming convention is to use PascalCase for constants:

```suggestion
        private const int EarthYearInSeconds = 31_557_600;
```

Reviewer: I like the use of the underscores in the value!

>         private const double orbitalMercury = 0.2408467;

Reviewer: Maybe be a bit more explicit here: 

```suggestion
        private const double orbitalPeriodMercuryInEarthYears = 0.2408467;
```

This would also apply to the other constants.

        private const double orbitalVenus = 0.61519726;
        private const double orbitalMars = 1.8808158;
        private const double orbitalJupiter = 11.862615;
        private const double orbitalSaturn = 29.447498;
        private const double orbitalUranus = 84.016846;
        private const double orbitalNeptune = 164.79132;
    
        public SpaceAge(int seconds) => _seconds = seconds;

        public double OnEarth() => _seconds / earthYearInSeconds;
        public double OnMercury() => _seconds / earthYearInSeconds / orbitalMercury;
        public double OnVenus() => _seconds / earthYearInSeconds / orbitalVenus;
        public double OnMars() => _seconds / earthYearInSeconds / orbitalMars;
        public double OnJupiter() => _seconds / earthYearInSeconds / orbitalJupiter;
        public double OnSaturn() => _seconds / earthYearInSeconds / orbitalSaturn;
        public double OnUranus() => _seconds / earthYearInSeconds / orbitalUranus;
        public double OnNeptune() => _seconds / earthYearInSeconds / orbitalNeptune;
    }
    ```

### Common suggestions

> - _In case_ values of each indivdual orbital period is defined in a variable, these should be defined either as _const_ (these are implicitly static) or _static readonly_.

Reviewer: I think we should be suggestion to use a `const` here, as `const` is more idiomatic when the value is intended never to change. There are also some subtle differences between the two options, which are explained in [this StackOverflow post](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/755685/static-readonly-vs-const#755693).

Author: yes, const is better in this case.

}
```

### Common suggestions

> - _In case_ values of each indivdual orbital period is defined in a variable, these should be defined as _const_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- _In case_ the values of each individual orbital period are defined in a variable, that variable should be defined as _const_.
```

Reviewer 2: `these` would refer to `"each individual orbital period"`, but I think you meant the variable in question.

> - The internal parameter (storing the number of seconds) could be an auto-implemented property or a readonly member (with value initialized in the constructor)

Reviewer: I would suggest to make it a readonly member, as private auto-implemented properties are rarely used as far I can tell. Maybe also rephrase a little bit, as we are not storing a parameter. And also maybe be explicit here, and state that the constructor should store the number of seconds in earth years (as your examples do), which is an optimization that simplifies the code a bit.

> - The internal parameter (storing the number of seconds) should be a readonly member, initialized in the constructor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The internal parameter (storing the number of seconds) should be a `readonly` member, initialized in the constructor.
```

> - It needs to be done a conversion to double. Either by defining as a double  (in our case_ _seconds_ is a double), or making an explicit conversion _(double)_

Reviewer: Is this really a common suggestion we make to suggestions? I have so far not seen a student struggling with this, which is probably due to the relatively sane implicit conversions being done by the C# compiler.

Author: I agree with your comment, and I will remove this section.

> - Not everyone likes them, but it might be useful to suggest writing the single-line methods as [expression-bodied methods]((https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/operators/lambda-operator#expression-body-definition)), as it is perfect for these kinds of small methods.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You may suggest writing the single-line methods as [expression-bodied methods]((https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/operators/lambda-operator#expression-body-definition)), as it is perfect for these kinds of small methods.
```

I prefer to be a bit more "clear" with these suggestions. No need to add emotive content in this case, but I understand why you did it :)

> ### Talking Suggestions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Talking points
```

> - Suggest [expression bodied members](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/operators/lambda-operator#expression-body-definition) syntax. It makes code cleaner for short (one-line) methods.

Reviewer: I agree that expression-bodied members are ideal here. You could consider re-using the existing expression-bodied members suggestion: 

"Not everyone likes them, but it might be useful to suggest writing the single-line methods as expression-bodied methods, as it is perfect for these kinds of small methods."

Author: yes, I've seen this in the earlier notes. I will include it too.

> - Not mentioned in the unit tests, should negative time periods be excluded ?

Reviewer: Is this something you talk about with your students?

Author: I've seen this condition added in more solutions, and this is why I've added. It would be actually a nice unit test to add too.

Author: Let me know if you agree to keep this comment. Thank you

### Reasonable solutions

#### using `Dictionary`

```csharp
using System.Collections.Generic;

public class SpaceAge
{
    private readonly double earthYear;
    private const double OrbitalPeriodEarth = 31_557_600.0;

    private static Dictionary<string, double> conversionFactor 

>             = new Dictionary<string, double>()

Reviewer: Mayeb put this on the same line as the declaration?

Author: sure, done

    {
        {"Mercury", 0.2408467},
        {"Venus",   0.61519726},
        {"Mars",    1.8808158},
        {"Jupiter", 11.862615},
        {"Saturn",  29.447498},
        {"Uranus",  84.016846},
        {"Neptune", 164.79132},

>         {"Earth",   1.0}

Reviewer: Minor nit: maybe move earth between venus and mars? To reflect its position in the solar system?

Author: sure, I will do this

    };

    public SpaceAge(int seconds)
    {
        earthYear = seconds / OrbitalPeriodEarth;
    }

    private double GetOrbitalPeriodInEarthYears(string planetName) 

>             => earthYear / conversionFactor[planetName];

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        => earthYear / conversionFactor[planetName];
```

    private const double OrbitalPeriodMarsInEarthYears = 1.8808158;
    private const double OrbitalPeriodJupiterInEarthYears = 11.862615;
    private const double OrbitalPeriodSaturnInEarthYears = 29.447498;
    private const double OrbitalPeriodUranusInEarthYears = 84.016846;
    private const double OrbitalPeriodNeptuneInEarthYears = 164.79132;

    public SpaceAge(int seconds) => earthYear = seconds / OrbitalPeriodEarth;

    public double OnEarth() => earthYear;
    public double OnMercury() => earthYear / OrbitalPeriodMercuryInEarthYears;
    public double OnVenus() => earthYear / OrbitalPeriodVenusInEarthYears;
    public double OnMars() => earthYear / OrbitalPeriodMarsInEarthYears;
    public double OnJupiter() => earthYear / OrbitalPeriodJupiterInEarthYears;
    public double OnSaturn() => earthYear / OrbitalPeriodSaturnInEarthYears;
    public double OnUranus() => earthYear / OrbitalPeriodUranusInEarthYears;
    public double OnNeptune() => earthYear / OrbitalPeriodNeptuneInEarthYears;
}
```

### Common suggestions

- _In case_ the values of each individual orbital period are defined in a variable, that variable should be defined as _const_.

> - The internal parameter (storing the number of seconds) should be a `readonly` member, initialized in the constructor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The internal variable (storing the number of seconds) should be a `readonly` field, initialized in the constructor.
```
